Laser hair reduction has had a turbulent history dating all the way back to 1960, and to be quite honest, very few people seem to want to talk about it. While it has since matured and become an effective treatment option for many, its history of deceipt - and in some cases injury, coupled by a complicated relationship with the FDA may still leave cause for concern.

## History of Laser Hair Reduction

### 1960:
Theodore Maiman developed the first laser ever invented using a ruby gemstone. Early research explored using the ruby laser for hair removal, but the technology was not yet refined enough to be safe or effective. While it could minimize hair growth, it also caused severe burns and skin damage, as reported by the University of Southern California.

### 1964:
A new kind of neodymium laser called the Nd:YAG was first demonstrated by Joseph E. Geusic at Bell Laboratories in 1964. The same year, it was approved by the FDA and offered some reduction in hair growth, but it still didn't provide permanent results, as mentioned by Spa MD.

### 1970's:
The next attempt at laser hair removal came in the 1970s when the alexandrite laser was invented. Radiation was forced through an alexandrite crystal, causing a reduction in hair growth. While this method was safer than earlier lasers, it still did not have enough heat to stop hair growth permanently, according to Spa MD.

### 1983:
R. Rox Anderson and John Parrish developed the theory of selective photothermolysis, which focused on using specific wavelengths of light to target and destroy pigmented tissue without damaging surrounding skin.

### 1997:
After nearly 40 years, the alexandrite laser was approved by the FDA for use in laser hair reduction, paving the way for its wider adoption.

### 2019:
The United States Food and Drug Administration removes resources for radiation-emitting producs from their website, including the only consumer guidance on laser hair reduction.

## What even is FDA "approval"?

At the beginning of this blog post, I mentioned that laser hair reduction has had a complicated relationship with the FDA. To me, it feels like no one wants to be responsible for claiming you can achieve permanent hair removal with laser. In truth, the FDA has never claimed this fact and actually prohibits manufacturers from advertising their products are even for hair removal - let alone make any sort of guarantees about their permanency: 

> Manufacturers should be aware that receiving an FDA clearance for general permission to market their devices does not permit them to advertise the lasers for either hair removal or wrinkle treatment, even though hair removal or wrinkle treatment may be a by-product of any cleared laser procedure. Further, manufacturers may not claim that laser hair removal is either painless or permanent unless the FDA determines that there are sufficient data to demonstrate such results. Several manufacturers received FDA permission to claim, "permanent reduction," NOT "permanent removal" for their lasers. This means that although laser treatments with these devices will permanently reduce the total number of body hairs, they will not result in a permanent removal of all hair. 

So why did the United States Food & Drug Administration remove the only consumer guidance on laser hair reduction from their website? Well to me, its simple - they can't keep up and have no desire to. In fact, the article they removed says so:

> The popularity of laser hair removal has increasingly grown, prompting many laser manufacturers to conduct research and seek FDA clearance for their lasers for this indication. The market is growing so quickly that FDA cannot maintain an up-to-date list of all laser manufacturers whose devices have been cleared for hair removal, as this list continues to change.

While this article no longer exists, you can still view it using the Wayback Machine [here](https://tinyurl.com/yhndr8da).

## So, is laser hair reduction even worth it?

Absolutely! Laser hair reduction has advanced greatly since its inception and has proven to be a safe and effective option for many individuals. However, there are still some very important considerations. For example, laser is not be effective on all types of hair and skin. Additionally, certain areas of the body simply do not respond as well to laser hair reduction due to hormonal stimulation of the hair follicles.
###
Determining what will work best for you can be tricky, but we're here to help! We offer free consultations for new clients and discounts to members of the LGBT+ community. If you'd like to get in contact, please drop us a line [here](mailto:info@kmnk.beauty).
