The machines we use to perform electrolysis today usually have three different modes, or modalities: electrolysis, thermolysis, and the blend. Each method has comparative benefits and disadvantages, and they should be used in accordance with individual clients’ needs and situations. Furthermore, there are additional settings for each mode that must also be configured. Your electrologist will work with you to determine what will be the most effective for you.

## Electrolysis
Also known as galvanic electrolysis, or simply galvanic, this method utilizes a DC current to produce a chemical reaction at the base of the hair follicle. The reaction produces lye, which can permanently destroy the hair. Electrolysis is the orignal modality and is still used today.

### Advantages
- More effective than other methods at treating coarse hair and distorted follicles.
- Treatment energy is directed to the area of greatest moisture, i.e. the lower follicular area, where the dermal papilla is located.
- Potentially less re-growth.

### Disadvantages
* Generally slower than other methods as it requires more time to allow the lye to form and act on surrounding tissues.
* Less effective at treating fine vellus hairs, which are generally more shallow. This is because there is less moisture and a higher level of insulating sebum in the upper follicular area.

## Thermolysis
Also known as high frequency (HF) or short-wave diathermy (SWD), this method utilizes an AC current to energize the moisture near the base of the hair follicle. The resulting heat can permanently destroy the hair. The main advantage of thermolysis is its speed.

### Advantages
* Thermolysis is by far the quickest way to treat hairs - it only takes 1 - 2 seconds per follicle!

### Disadvantages
* The heating effect produced during the treatment is relatively narrow and requires more precision on the part of the operator.
* Even with proper technique, thermolysis is not suitable for the removal of especially distorted hair follicles.
* More likely to produce irritation such as redness or swelling after the treatment.
* Potentially more re-growth.

## The Blend
This method effectively utilizes the electrolysis and thermolysis methods simultaneously and benefits from the greater effectiveness of the electrolysis method while leveraging the warmth produced by thermolysis. Much of the medical literature we have regarding this modality was written by its inventor, Arthur Hinkel, who now operates a business that sells electrolysis equipment. So, it is often a bit biased against the other modalities.

### Advantages
* The fluidity of the warmed lye makes it effective on many different types of hair follicles.
* Clients may report that it feels more comfortable compared to other methods because the electrical currents used are lower overall.

### Disadvantages
* It’s still relatively slow and doesn’t save much time compared to electrolysis.
* Medical literature supporting this method is potentially biased.

## Which modality of electrolysis is the best?
It may be tempting to pick a favorite, but there are a few other considerations that need to be made. For example, while a regimen consisting of exclusively electrolysis may result in less re-growth, thermolysis is quicker and more hairs can be treated in the same amount of time. All three modalities require moisture for effective treatment. Below are some additional considerations, but this is by no means an exhaustive list:

* Is there any skin reaction or trouble healing?
* How well does the client tolerate the pain of the treatment?
* What kind of hair follicles are being treated, and which settings would be most effective?

## Ready to get started?
Click [here](mailto:scheduling@kmnk.beauty) to schedule an electrolysis appointment in your area today!
